---
title: "I make YouTube videos now"
date: "2025-11-23" #YYYY-MM-DD
tags: ["Blog"]
ogImage: "public/images/opengraph-image.png"
description: A new hobby
---
I’ve been thinking about this for sometime now, and today, I’ve started making YouTube videos with a focus on software, photography, life and anything else that interests me.

But why?

I’ve been thinking of ways of trying to grow my audience and creating YouTube content might be the way to do it.

There are several subjects that would be better explained in a video, rather than typing up a post. Topics that would involve showing videos, images or something physical.

Plus, putting together a video is fun and it’s nice to have another skill. Another notch on my bow, if you will.

The blog will continue to exist and be updated, as I enjoy writing posts. But from time to time, you might see a video posted here. Not sure on how frequently I’ll upload a new video, as I want to take my time and provide a high quality video.

Anyway, here’s my first video! It’s about how the Ricoh GR III X brought me back to photography. I’ve embedded it below, and if you happen to be viewing this in an RSS reader, click [here](https://youtu.be/l_giBmSUpLk).

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/l_giBmSUpLk?si=zJyvSk6-xutSEMUM" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## What gear am I using?

### iPhone 16 Pro

Turns out phones are pretty good at recording video, and the iPhone can record in 4K up to 120FPS and in Log as well. It makes a convincing argument to not buy something like an Osmo Pocket 3 or a dedicated camera.

### DJI Mic Mini

Although phones are good at capturing video, recording audio is a different problem. For that, I bought a DJI Mic Mini when it was on sale earlier this year. It can connect to my phone via USB-C and is extremely easy to use.

Audio quality is great, but I feel that I need to dive deeper into the settings so I can get the adio quality just right.

### Smallrig video monitor (and tripod)

It’s tricky to know how your video looks if you’re using the rear cameras on your phone, so I bought a video monitor by Smallrig. This comes with a tripod and a clicker as well, which I use as well.

I got this for roughly £50 and it’s a steal at that price. It’s super useful in seeing how you look in the camera before you start recording. It’s definitely worth picking up.

### Smallrig light

I need a light focused on me or my subject and this light was roughly £20 which caught my attention. Bonus points for it also being another Smallrig product so it fits nicely on the tripod via the cold shoe.

The whole thing put together does look kind of look like Frankenstein’s monster, but it works.

## Software

### DaVinci Resolve

This software is free to use which is the biggest pull here. It’s good at editing videos, but it definitely has a learning curve.

Thankfully, freeCodeCamp, have a great free video course on YouTube that gives a great introduction to editing videos.

### Canva

I used Canva to create the YouTube banner and the ending card of the video. Turns out Canva is pretty good for this sort of thing. I did use a template from Pixelmator Pro to get the gridlines from for the YouTube banner to make sure it could be displayed correctly on each device. I just happened to like the font I found on Canva that is used on the banner and ending card, looks nice and it’s legible. Hoping I can find a font similar when I take my editing skills in DaVinci Resolve up a notch.

## Audio

Everything you hear in the video, the sound effects and music, is **royalty free!** The music isn’t great compared to paid services such as epidemic sound but it gets the job done. If things go well, I may consider subscribing to something like epidemic sound.

Currently, all the sound effects and music are from Pixabay.

## Wrap up

As you can tell, I’ve tried to keep the costs down as much as I can while trying to deliver a high quality video. If the videos are a success, I may invest in more (premium) equipment.

There’s definitely some things that can be improved, such as the audio quality from my mic (I need to look deeper into the settings for that).

This is the part where I say ‘like and subscribe’ but only do that if you enjoyed the video.

See you next time!
